-House Resolution 24 resolved
that Donald John Trump, President of the United States,
is impeached for high crimes and misdemeanors.
Article 1, incitement of insurrection.
The Constitution provides that the House of Representatives
shall have the sole power of impeachment
and that the President shall be removed from office
on impeachment for and conviction of treason,
bribery, or other crimes and misdemeanors.
Further, section 3 of the 14th Amendment
to the Constitution
prohibits any person who has engaged in insurrection
or rebellion against the United States
from holding any office.
-We are debating this historic measure
at an actual crime scene.
And we wouldn't be here
if it weren't for the President of the United States.
This was not a protest. This was an insurrection.
This was a well-organized attack on our country
that was incited by Donald Trump.
-And we know that the President of the United States
incited this insurrection,
this armed rebellion against our common country.
He must go.
He is a clear and present danger to the nation that we all love.
-Those who stormed the Capitol will be brought to justice.
And some members have proposed an alternative procedure --
censoring the President --
which could garner significant bipartisan support in the House.
-I believe impeaching the President
in such a short timeframe
would be a mistake.
That doesn't mean the President is free from fault.
The President bears responsibility
for Wednesday's attack on Congress
by mob rioters.
-The President took an oath to defend the Constitution
against all enemies, foreign and domestic.
Last week, there was a domestic threat
at the door of the Capitol,
and he did nothing to stop it.
That is why, with a heavy heart and clear resolve,
I will vote yes on these articles of impeachment.
-Today, we don't need a long investigation
to know the President incited right-wing terrorists
to attack the Congress
to try to overturn Constitutional government.
The actions were in public, plain as day.
His actions are the most serious offense
against our Constitution and our country.
They are impeachable acts.
-I rise in opposition to the resolution.
At a time when our country needs unity,
it is concerning that my Democratic colleagues
have chosen to begin impeachment proceedings
against a President with just seven days left in office.
-The ayes are 232.
The nays are 197.
The resolution is adopted.
Without objection, the motion to reconsider
is laid upon the table.